- [Instructor] We have talked throughout this course
about the complexity of performance measuring,
monitoring, and reporting.
In response to our opening question,
how does your application perform?
We have learned many technical skills
that are essential to a spring developer
in mastering this aspect of our work.
In this lesson,
we will talk about how to translate those skills
into action,
making performance work a practical part
of your everyday development workflow.
When you and your team are committed to generating
and maintaining a living compilation of metrics
that are specific and useful to your application,
then you have some excellent advantages.
You can capture impactful decisions and decision trees.
Then you can surface the impacts of those decisions
to your performance, showing trends over time.
It can lead you to informed conversations about performance
over the life cycle of your application.
Okay, that's great.
But it's actually one of the hardest parts of this work
to narrow down the field
of possible things you can measure,
to things that are useful and relevant for you to measure.
This lesson will walk you through
some of the steps you can take alone or with your team,
in order to do this.
Step one.
If you haven't already, describe your application in words,
and also as a component diagram.
Given the pace of development these days,
and the demands to roll out features as quickly as possible,
often these system diagrams are missing
or have fallen out of date.
Find them and update them, or create them as necessary.
Then you are prepared
to identify the essential performance impacting parts
of your system.
Once that step is done,
I suggest you break out your metrics into two categories,
JVM metrics, and connected components.
This is where the specifics of your spring application
become very relevant,
because the next step is to start describing
the loads under which you need to operate.
If these conversations have not yet taken place
with your stakeholders in an official way,
make some good guesses.
Don't let this lack of direction or information stop you
from taking the first steps to organizing your profile.
Once you have identified some reasonable loads
and identified the best way to run some tests,
which is outside the scope of this course,
then capture a baseline set of metrics.
Basic metrics are okay to start with.
In this example, we took a baseline load test,
10 concurrent threads,
calculating prime numbers to 10,000,
and snagged a screenshot of JVM performance,
JVM memory, CPU performance,
and also key indicators of our database and service calls,
and transaction metrics.
Having assembled this much,
then we can identify and communicate areas
in need of attention, such as our memory issues,
or we can expand our test scenarios
to cover a wider range of conditions.
The main point here is to start simple and go from there.
There is a template document for you to start with
in the repository,
at the root of the repository called,
application performance profile template.
This document breaks down this process into manageable steps
to help you assemble
your living performance profile documentation.
You will find it in Libra Office and also Word formats.
Now that you have the technical skills in place,
I hope you use these resources
to begin the transition in your workflow
to make performance tuning
part of your everyday spring development life.